---
title: The Privacy Assuring Nondisclosure Agreement (PANDA)
number: 1.0.0
date: 2019-07-14
---

These terms protect _Personal Information_ that **Discloser** may disclose to **Recipient**.

## Standard Form

This is a standard form published at https://pandaprivacy.org/versions/1.0.0 on July 14, 2019.

## Purposes

The parties anticipate disclosure of _Personal Information_ for the purposes stated in writing in the offer to enter an agreement on these terms (the **Purposes**).

## Personal Information

### Categories

Subject to [Public Information](#public-information), **Personal Information** means information relating to _Discloser_ disclosed by _Discloser_ during the term of this agreement, as well as information relating to _Discloser_ that _Recipient_ derives from information disclosed by _Discloser_.

### Public Information

Information that is now public is not _Personal Information_.  _Personal Information_ that becomes public, other than as a result of breach of this agreement, stops being _Personal Information_.

## Obligations

### Nondisclosure

Except as described in [Permitted Disclosure](#permitted-disclosure), _Recipient_ agrees not to disclose _Personal Information_ to anyone.

### Permitted Disclosure

_Recipient_ may disclose _Personal Information_ to:

1.  **Assistants**: employees, independent contractors, officers, directors, and agents of _Recipient_ who have a need to know the _Personal Information_ for the _Purposes_ and have entered written nondisclosure agreements with _Recipient_ that impose nondisclosure obligations for any of _Recient_'s _Personal Information_ they receive that give as much or more protection as these terms

2.  **Advisers**: _Recipient_ legal advisers whose conduct is regulated by laws or professional rules that impose nondisclosure obligations for any of _Recipient_'s _Personal Information_ they receive

### Limited Use

_Recipient_ agrees to use _Personal Information_ only for the _Purposes_.

### Security

_Recipient_ agrees to take measures to secure materials containing _Personal Information_ at least as protective as those _Recipient_ employs to secure its own confidential information, but in any event no less than reasonable measures.

### Legally Required Disclosure

When the law or the government requires disclosure of _Personal Information_, and when _Recipient_ reasonably expects that the law may require disclosure of _Personal Information_, _Recipient_ agrees to promptly notify _Discloser_ of the nature of the requirement and the _Personal Information_ affected, if legally allowed.  If possible, _Recipient_ agrees to give notice quickly enough to give _Discloser_ a practical opportunity to take legal action to protect the confidentiality of the _Personal Information_.  _Recipient_ agrees to cooperate with _Discloser_ in any such proceeding by providing reasonable assistance on request from _Discloser_.

### Leaks

_Recipient_ agrees to give _Discloser_ prompt notice when _Recipient_ becomes aware, suspects, or anticipates that _Personal Information_ has been or will be disclosed or used in breach of this agreement, other nondisclosure agreements, or applicable law.

### Return and Destruction

On termination of this agreement, _Recipient_ agrees to promptly return copies of all _Personal Information_ that _Discloser_ requested on termination and destroy all parts of other materials that embody _Personal Information_, including those held by _Assistants_ and _Advisers_.

### Oversight

_Recipient_ agrees to ensure that its _Assistants_ and _Advisers_ abide by the nondisclosure obligations of _Recipient_ under this agreement.  Breach of _Recipient_ obligations by _Assistants_ or _Advisers_ will be deemed breach of this agreement by _Recipient_ itself.

### Copies of Agreements

On _Discloser_ request, _Recipient_ agrees to provide _Discloser_ copies of nondisclosure agreements with _Assistants_ that are independent legal entities that receive any of _Discloser_'s _Personal Information_ through _Recipient_.

## Clarifications

### No Obligation to Disclose

No terms of this agreement obligate _Discloser_ to disclose any _Personal Information_.

### No Obligation to Do Business

No terms of this agreement obligate either party to enter any other relationship or agreement, related to the _Purposes_ or otherwise.

### No License

No terms of this agreement grant any license for any patent, trademark, copyright, or other intellectual property.

### No Warranty

_Discloser_ makes no warranty that _Personal Information_ will be complete or accurate.

## Remedies

Breaching any obligation under this agreement would cause irreparable harm that money damages would not adequately compensate.  _Discloser_ will be entitled to seek an injunction, restraining order, and other equitable remedies for _Recipient_ breach of this agreement, without posting bond or security, and without proving actual damages.  This agreement does not prevent _Discloser_ from seeking remedies under privacy, security, and other laws that apply to _Personal Information_.

## Term

### Termination by Notice

Either party may terminate this agreement by fourteen calendar days' prior, written notice to the other party.

### After Termination

[Obligations](#obligations) will survive the term of this agreement indefinitely for _Personal Information_ disclosed during the term.

## General Contract Terms

### No Assignment or Delegation

Neither party may assign any right or delegate any obligation under this agreement without the prior, signed, written consent of the other party.  Any attempt to assign or delegate without consent will have no legal effect.

### Dispute Resolution

The law of the jurisdiction where _Discloser_ lives when the claim is brought will govern all aspects of this agreement.  The parties agree to bring legal proceedings related to this agreement only in court districts encompassing the place where _Discloser_ lives.  The parties consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of those courts, and waive any objection that legal proceedings brought there are brought in an inconvenient forum.  The parties may enforce judgments of those courts in any appropriate forum.  Each party agrees to pay attorney fees and costs that the other party incurs in any legal proceeding related to this agreement that results in final judgments on the merits, in the other party's favor, on all their claims.

### Relationship

This agreement does not create any partnership, joint venture, agency, or similar relationship between the parties.

### Amendments and Waivers

The parties will amend this agreement only by cosigned, written agreement.  The parties will waive parts of this agreement, if at all, only by written waiver describing the specific terms waived and in what particular instance, signed by the party waiving.

### Notices

The parties agree to send every notice, demand, consent, request, or other communication required or allowed by this agreement:

1.  by e-mail to the address the other party provided on entering into this agreement; or

2.  by overnight courier, with signature required for delivery, to the address the other party provided on entering into this agreement.

Either party may change its e-mail and postal addresses for later communications by giving notice of a new address.

### Unenforceable Terms

If a court decides than any part of this agreement is unenforceable for any reason, but enforcing the rest of the agreement would serve the purpose of protecting _Personal Information_ to advance the _Purposes_, then rest of this agreement will remain in force.

### Enforcement

Only the parties may enforce rights under this agreement.

### Entire Agreement

The parties intend these terms and their statement of _Purposes_ as the final, complete, and only expression of their agreement about use and nondisclosure of _Discloser_'s _Personal Information_.
